250 ARTIOLEs 01 THE

many heavy consequenees followed, even 10 fines, banish-
ment, imprisonment, exclusion from the common benefits
of society, and even death, the very word excommunica-
tion became dreadful and hateful3 and the relaxation of
all discipline, nay, almost its annihilation, has been the
consequence. Restore the matter to its original use 3 let
the communicants become such of their own volzmtary
choice, admitted 011 3 simple and credible profession of
those things in which Christianity consists 3 and let them,
if they 301 inconsistently, be exeluded from communion,
and left in their former state till they give proof of re-
pentance3 considered as equally entitled 10 good will and
good offices in temporal things, 38 our other neighbours 3
admitted to any means of grace which may aid their re-
covery 3 conversed with in every way which does not
sanction their misconduct 3 and “ restored,” if it may be,
in “the spirit of meekness.'’ On this plan, Ι apprehend,
discipline might again be established, and great benefit
arise from it. But they who cannot inflict miraculous
judgments surely are not authorized 10 attempt other
punishments of excommunicated persons, which have a
thousand times oftener been exercised against the truth
than for the truth.

The distinctions among the different offenders, and the
mandates given 10 1110 different subordinate classes and
presbyteries, appear in no other way exceptionable, than
as the Presbyterian plan will of course be objected to,
both by Episcopalians and Independents. But the Synod,
as it has been seen, attempted far too much 3 and, for-
getful of our Lord's prohibition, were so eager to root up
the tares that they greatly endangered the wheat also.

