242 ARTIOLES or THE

men’s conscienees, and impose things not scrc‘ptural, if
not direetly anti-scriptmal, as terms of communion, or
even of exemption from pains and penalties 3 and also on .
those who on slight grounds refuse eomplianoe where the
requirement is not evidently wrong, and then magnify
by a perverse ingenuity, into a most grievous evil, some
harmless posture, or garb, or ceremony. If the one party
would humbly and meekly, without desiring to arrogate a
power not belonging to man, desist from peremptorily re-
quiring such things as are doubtful, and liable to be mis-
understood, and so sorupled by upright, peaceable, and
eonscientious persons 3 and if the other party would de-
termine to comply, as far as on muoh previous examina-
tion of the Scripture, with prayer and teaohableneSS, they
conscientiously could do it, the schism might be pre-
vented, and all the very bad effeots of the churoh of
Christ being thus rent and split into parties, prevented.
For these several parties are generally more eager in dis-
puting with each other, than “contending for the faith
once delivered to the saints 3'’ in making proselytes‚ than
in seeking the conversion of sinners, and in rendering
their opponents odious and ridiculous, than in exhibiting
our holy religion as lovely and attractive to all around
them. In these things, their zeal spends itself to no good
purpose.

As to the existing divisions, it appears to me, on long
and patient investigation‚ that they originated from very
great criminality on both sides 3 nor am I prepared to
say, onwhioh side it was the greater, and that there is
criminality on both sides, in the continuanoe of them,
and still more in the increase of them, in whioh the
heaviest lies, on those who hastily, and on very doubtful

