116 HISTORY or

were explained in these five articles, they humbly prayed,
that, by the authority of the illustrious, the Strrtes, it
might be enjoined on the Remonstrants‚ that they should
likewise roundly and openly declare themselves concerning
all the rest. There-fore, when the first article of the Re-
monstrants was about to be discussed‚ (or canvassed, ex-
cutiendus) in which it is stated, “ that God had from eter-
nity decreed to save persevering believers‚'' which no
Christian denies, and this article was so placed by them,
as that which contained the doctrine concerning God's
eternal election‚ the Remonstrants were asked‚ that (in
addition) to the declaration of their opinion, as expressed
in this article, they would explain these two things :
First, whether they would maintain that this article con-
tained the whole decree of predestination 3 secondly,
whether they thought that this faith and perseveranee in
the saith were causes and condicz‘ons which preceded elec-
tion unto salvation3 or fimitis which sprivy from election‚
and follow after it. After they had shifted about for
some time, they answered at length, to the first indeed,
that they acknowledged no other predestination to salva-
tion‚ than that which had been expressed by them in the
first article 3 but to the second, that faith in the consid-
eration and view of Grod was prior to election to salva-
tion, and that it did not follow in the manner of any
fruit. They then proposed in return seven other ques-
tions, as well concerning election as reprobation, to which
they desired an answer to be 'given by the pastors deputed
from the Classes. These, as they did not belong to the
state of the controversy concerning the first article, and
moreover were most of them mutilated and intricate, were
proposed by them, that by this method they might draw

