PRECEDING Evnnrs. 163

tion of their opinion on the before mentioned articles,
which afterwards, having been translated into Latin by
the delegates of this Synod, was communicated to the na·-
tional Synod: but, in the place of considerations, they
sent some things gathered out of the writings of certain
learned men, as if opposite to the Confession and the
Catechism.

Before this Synod, John Utenbogardus and Nicolas
Grevinehovius were cited, and when the former, as a
fugitive (profuyus), dared not to appear, but the latter
contumaciously refused, the accusations produced against
them having been examined, each of them was by the
judgment of this Synod removed from the ecclesiastical
ministry. But when in South Helland, besides these two,
there were many others, of whom the most in these dis-
sensions had been obtruded on unwilling churches with-
out a lawful vocation3 and others, who besides these five
articles, had moreover scattered many Socinian errors,
others had grievously offended the churches by wicked
and turbulent actions, and others finally led a profane
life ; it was judged necessary, in order that the ehurches
should be purified from these scandals, and the discipline
of the clergy, as it is called, which had fallen into dceay,
should at length be restored, that all these disorderly
(ἀτάκτους) pastors should be cited, that they might render
before the Synod an account, as well of their vocation as
of their doctrine, and also of their life 5 which seemed
proper to be done even for this cause also, before the na-
tional Synod, that if perhaps any should deem themselves
aggrieved by the sentence of the Synod or its deputies,
they might appeal to the judgment (of the national Synod.)
Certain of these appeared, whose causes having been duly

