144 H1s'r0RY or

the States, that they might publicly explain their diffi-
culties or grievances, which they had as to those things,
that were contained in the writing, and might deprecate
the introduction of the same. then on this account they
had come to the Hague, and had now learned from the
delegates of the principal cities, that those decrees, though
they had already been transmitted, had not as yet been
confirmed by the customary (solemni) approbation of all
the States; and therefore could not as yet obtain the
force of a law, they judged that they must desist from
the design till they should be further pressed. But this
last decree gave occasion to new contentions and disturb-
ances in many places, especially in the chureh at Harlem.
For when some magistrates determined that ministers
should be called, according to this new form, and (thus)
called them, but the churches did not approve it, it came
to paSS, that they refused to acknowledge those who had
been thus called as their lawful pastors, and to have any
ecclesiastical communion with them. It was also effected
by these decrees, that certain Classes in Holland‚ which
had hitherto preserved unity in the government of the
churches‚ with the Remonstrants for the sake of peace,
were now torn away from them (divellerentur), because
the most of the pastors could not approve these things:
yet as the Remonstrants purposed that the churches
should be governed according to the prescript and law
of these decrees, but were not able to extort this from
their fellow ministers by authority, they introduced into
the conventions of the Classes certain political persons,
mostly alienated from the Reformed religion, and attached
to their party, and brought dominion into the churches.
For the orthodox pastors, tired out by the contentions

